# Contents 



# add_noise(n, mean=0, sd=1):

**Description**: This function generates and returns an array of random
numbers with normal distribution that can be used to add noise to data.
The level of noise is controlled by the standard deviation (sd)
parameter, while the mean parameter determines the center of the
distribution.

**Parameters**:

-   **n** (int): Number of random numbers to generate for adding noise.

-   **mean** (float): optional Mean (center) of the normal distribution.
    Default is 0.

-   **Sd (**float):optional Standard deviation (strength) of the normal
    distribution. Default is 1.

**Returns:**

ndarray Array of random numbers with normal distribution, used for
adding noise to data.

# add_na(vec, n=None, share=0.05)

**Description:** The **add_na** function is used to introduce **None**
(or **null**) values into a given series of values. The number of
**None** entries can be controlled either by specifying an absolute
number **n** or by specifying a relative share **share** of **None**
values.

**Parameters**:

-   **vec** (array-like): The input series of values that need to be
    transformed by adding **None** values.

-   **n** (int, optional): The fixed number of **None** values to be
    added. If not provided, the function will calculate the number of
    **None** values based on the relative share parameter **share**.

-   **share** (float, optional): The relative share of **None** values
    to be added. This parameter is used when **n** is not provided. The
    default value is **0.05**.

**Returns:**

-   **result** (array-like): A new array with **None** values introduced
    at randomly selected positions in the input series **vec**.

# add_outlier(vec, n=None, share=0.01)

**Description:** The **add_outlier** function is designed to introduce
outlier values into a given series of values. The number of outlier
entries can be controlled either by specifying an absolute number **n**
or by specifying a relative share **share** of outlier values. Outliers
are generated based on a random distribution and can fall outside the
typical range of data values.

**Parameters:**

-   **vec** (array-like): The input series of values that need to be
    transformed by adding outlier values.

-   **n** (int, optional): The fixed number of outlier values to be
    added. If not provided, the function will calculate the number of
    outlier values based on the relative share parameter **share**.

-   **share** (float, optional): The relative share of outlier values to
    be added. This parameter is used when **n** is not provided. The
    default value is **0.01**.

**Returns:**

-   **result** (array-like): A new array with outlier values introduced
    at randomly selected positions in the input series **vec**.

# binarize_column(self, column_name, limit)

**Description:** The **binarize_column** method is used to binarize a
specific column of the dataframe associated with the object.
Binarization involves converting values in the column into binary values
(0 or 1) based on whether they are below the specified limit.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **column_name** (str): The name of the column in the dataframe that
    needs to be binarized.

-   **limit** (numeric): The threshold value. Values in the column that
    are less than this limit will be assigned a binary value of 1, while
    values greater than or equal to the limit will be assigned a binary
    value of 0.

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object (class instance) with the
    specified column binarized.

# generate_name(self)

**Description:** The **generate_name** method is used to create generic
column names that are not yet present in the dataframe associated with
the object. It generates column names in the format \"colX,\" where X is
a number that ensures the generated name is unique among the existing
column names.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

**Returns:**

-   **temp** (str): A generated column name that is not already used in
    the dataframe.

# categorize_column(self, column_name, limits)

**Description:** The **categorize_column** method replaces numerical
values in a specified column of the dataframe associated with the class
instance with generic categorical labels. This function is used to
discretize continuous data into predefined categories based on specified
limits. The categories are determined by the ranges defined by the
limits.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **column_name** (str): The name of the column in the dataframe that
    needs to be categorized.

-   **limits** (list or array-like): The limits that define the
    boundaries of the categories. The upper limit of one category
    corresponds to the lower limit of the next category. The values in
    the column will be mapped to these categories based on these limits.

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object (class instance) with the
    specified column categorized.

# add_var(self, var_name: str, data_generation_function: Callable, features: list or dict = None, noise=True, outliers=True, nas=True)

**Description:** The **add_var** method adds a new variable as a column
to the dataframe associated with the class instance. The method provides
flexibility to generate data for the new column using a callable
function. It also allows adding various types of synthetic data like
noise, outliers, and missing values to the new column.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **var_name** (str): The name of the new variable (column) to be
    added to the dataframe.

-   **data_generation_function** (Callable): A callable function that
    generates the data for the new column. This function should accept
    arguments based on the features specified.

-   **features** (list or dict, optional): The column names that the
    **data_generation_function** relies on for generating the new
    variable. If using a dictionary, keys represent argument names in
    the function, and values are columns in the dataframe. If using a
    list, elements are columns in the dataframe.

-   **noise** (bool, optional): Whether to add noise to the new
    variable. Noise is added if the column\'s data type is numeric.
    Default is **True**.

-   **outliers** (bool, optional): Whether to add outliers to the new
    variable. Outliers are added if the column\'s data type is numeric.
    Default is **True**.

-   **nas** (bool, optional): Whether to add missing values (None
    values) to the new variable. Default is **True**.

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object (class instance) with the new
    variable added to the dataframe.

# extract_dependencies(self)

**Description:** The **extract_dependencies** method extracts the
dependencies of various columns in the dataframe and assigns respective
levels to them. It prepares the dependency information for graph
visualization, where columns that depend on others are visually
represented in different levels.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

**Returns:**

-   **features** (list): A list of dictionaries representing the
    extracted features and their dependencies, along with assigned
    levels for visualization.

# draw_graph(self)

**Description:** The **draw_graph** method exports a graph file and a
visualization in PNG format that illustrates the dependencies between
different columns in the dataframe associated with the class instance.
It leverages graph visualization to visually represent how columns
depend on one another.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

**Returns:**

-   Exports a graph file and a .png visualization of the dependencies
    between different columns in the dataframe of the class instance

# check_inputs(self, n: int = None, var_name: str = None)

**Description:** The **check_inputs** method replaces the **None**
values of the **n** and **var_name** parameters with default values.
This method is used to ensure that appropriate values are assigned to
these parameters, considering the context of the dataframe and the class
instance.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **n** (int, optional): The row number. If not provided, it defaults
    to the current length of the dataframe\'s index. If the dataframe is
    empty, it defaults to **10000**.

-   **var_name** (str, optional): The variable name. If not provided, it
    defaults to a generic column name generated using the
    **generate_name** method.

**Returns:**

-   **n** (int): The row number after replacing the **None** value with
    a default value.

-   **var_name** (str): The variable name after replacing the **None**
    value with a default value.

# add_nominal(self, n: int = None, var_name: str = None, topic: Literal\[\"gender\", \"random\"\] = \"random\")

**Description:** The **add_nominal** method adds a nominal column to the
dataframe associated with the class instance. Nominal columns are
categorical columns that represent qualitative data with distinct
categories. The method currently implements a distribution for gender,
but it can be extended to include other nominal topics like races.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **n** (int, optional): The number of rows (entries) in the new
    column. If not provided, it defaults to the current length of the
    dataframe\'s index. If the dataframe is empty, it defaults to
    **10000**.

-   **var_name** (str, optional): The name of the new nominal column. If
    not provided, it defaults to a generic column name generated using
    the **generate_name** method.

-   **topic** (Literal\[\"gender\", \"random\"\], optional): The topic
    of the nominal column to be added. It can be either \"gender\" (to
    add a gender distribution) or \"random\" (to add a random
    categorical distribution). Default is \"random\".

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object (class instance) with the new
    nominal column added to the dataframe.

# add_ordinal(self, n: int = None, var_name: str = None, topic: Literal\[\"grades\", \"random\"\] = \"random\")

**Description:** The **add_ordinal** method adds an ordinal column to
the dataframe associated with the class instance. Ordinal columns
represent categorical data with a clear ordering or ranking of
categories. The method currently implements a distribution for grades,
but it can be extended to include other ordinal topics.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **n** (int, optional): The number of rows (entries) in the new
    column. If not provided, it defaults to the current length of the
    dataframe\'s index. If the dataframe is empty, it defaults to
    **10000**.

-   **var_name** (str, optional): The name of the new ordinal column. If
    not provided, it defaults to a generic column name generated using
    the **generate_name** method.

-   **topic** (Literal\[\"grades\", \"random\"\], optional): The topic
    of the ordinal column to be added. It can be either \"grades\" (to
    add a distribution for grades) or \"random\" (to add a random
    ordinal distribution). Default is \"random\".

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object (class instance) with the new
    ordinal column added to the dataframe.

# add_interval(self, n: int = None, var_name: str = None, topic: Literal\[\"IQ\", \"random\"\] = \"random\")

**Description:** The **add_interval** method adds an interval column to
the dataframe associated with the class instance. Interval columns
represent continuous data with a clear ordering and consistent
measurement increments. The method currently implements a distribution
for IQ, but it can be extended to include other interval topics.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **n** (int, optional): The number of rows (entries) in the new
    column. If not provided, it defaults to the current length of the
    dataframe\'s index. If the dataframe is empty, it defaults to
    **10000**.

-   **var_name** (str, optional): The name of the new interval column.
    If not provided, it defaults to a generic column name generated
    using the **generate_name** method.

-   **topic** (Literal\[\"IQ\", \"random\"\], optional): The topic of
    the interval column to be added. It can be either \"IQ\" (to add a
    distribution for IQ values) or \"random\" (to add a random interval
    distribution). Default is \"random\".

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object (class instance) with the new
    interval column added to the dataframe.

# add_ratio(self, n: int = None, var_name: str = None, topic: Literal\[\"revenue\", \"random\"\] = \"random\")

**Description:** The **add_ratio** method adds a ratio column to the
dataframe associated with the class instance. Ratio columns represent
continuous data with meaningful ratios between values. The method
currently implements a distribution for revenue, but it can be extended
to include other ratio topics.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **n** (int, optional): The number of rows (entries) in the new
    column. If not provided, it defaults to the current length of the
    dataframe\'s index. If the dataframe is empty, it defaults to
    **10000**.

-   **var_name** (str, optional): The name of the new ratio column. If
    not provided, it defaults to a generic column name generated using
    the **generate_name** method.

-   **topic** (Literal\[\"revenue\", \"random\"\], optional): The topic
    of the ratio column to be added. It can be either \"revenue\" (to
    add a distribution for revenue values) or \"random\" (to add a
    random ratio distribution). Default is \"random\".

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object (class instance) with the new
    ratio column added to the dataframe.

# gen_target(self, var_name: str = \"target\", dependency_rate: float = 0.1, mandatory_features: list = \[\], bias: list = \[\])

**Description:** The **gen_target** method generates a target column and
a biased target column for the dataframe associated with the class
instance. The target column represents the dependent variable to be
predicted, and the biased target column is a version of the target
column with added bias. The method allows you to specify mandatory
features, features for bias, and other parameters to influence the
generation of the target columns.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **var_name** (str, optional): The name of the target column. Default
    is \"target\".

-   **dependency_rate** (float, optional): The rate of dependencies
    between the target and other features. Default is 0.1.

-   **mandatory_features** (list, optional): A list of feature names
    that must be included in the generation of the target. Default is an
    empty list.

-   **bias** (list, optional): A list of feature names that contribute
    to bias in the target generation. Default is an empty list.

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object (class instance) with the
    generated target and biased target columns added to the dataframe.

# add_target(self, var_name: str = None, dependency_rate: float = 0.2, target_type: Literal\[\"numerical\", \"binary\", \"categorical\"\] = \"numerical\", topic: Literal\[\"random\", \"loan\"\] = \"random\", n_classes: int = 2)

**Description:** The **add_target** method adds a target variable to the
dataframe associated with the class instance. The method allows you to
specify the type of target variable, the generation topic, and the
number of classes (for categorical targets).

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has a
    dataframe associated with it.

-   **var_name** (str, optional): The name of the target variable to be
    added. If not provided, it defaults to \"target\".

-   **dependency_rate** (float, optional): The rate of dependencies
    between the target and other features. Default is 0.2.

-   **target_type** (Literal\[\"numerical\", \"binary\",
    \"categorical\"\], optional): The type of target variable to be
    added. It can be \"numerical\", \"binary\", or \"categorical\".
    Default is \"numerical".

-   **topic** (Literal\[\"random\", \"loan\"\], optional): The topic for
    generating the target. It can be \"random\" (randomly generated
    target) or \"loan\" (loan target for debugging). Default is
    \"random\".

-   **n_classes** (int, optional): The number of classes for categorical
    target variables. Applicable only when **target_type** is
    \"categorical\". Default is 2.

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object (class instance) with the
    generated target variable added to the dataframe.

# get_ground_truth(self)

**Description:** The **get_ground_truth** method prints the ground truth
functions for the target variables associated with the class instance.
It displays both the biased and unbiased ground truth functions.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that has
    ground truth functions stored within it.

**Returns:**

-   Prints the ground truth function for the biased and unbiased dataset

# create_df(self)

**Description:** The **create_df** method returns a copy of the
generated dataframe associated with the class instance. This method
allows you to obtain a duplicate of the dataframe with all the
modifications and additions made through the various methods of the
class.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that holds
    the generated dataframe.

**Returns:**

-   **df_copy** (DataFrame): A copy of the generated dataframe with all
    modifications.

# gen_multi(self, n:int=None, num_cols:int=0, cat_cols:int=0, n_layers:int=None)

**Description:** The **gen_multi** method adds columns to the dataframe
based on the specified number of numerical and categorical columns
requested. This method provides a convenient way to generate multiple
columns of different types at once.

**Parameters:**

-   **self** (object): The object (instance of a class) that calls the
    method. Typically, this refers to an instance of a class that
    manages the dataframe and column generation.

-   **n** (int, optional): The number of rows for the generated columns.
    If not provided, it defaults to the length of the existing dataframe
    or 10,000 on initialization.

-   **num_cols** (int, optional): The number of numerical columns to
    add. Defaults to 0 if not provided.

-   **cat_cols** (int, optional): The number of categorical columns to
    add. Defaults to 0 if not provided.

-   **n_layers** (int, optional): The number of layers for hierarchical
    generation. Defaults to None.

**Returns:**

-   **self** (object): The modified object instance with the newly added
    columns.
